Gammu All Mobile Management Utilities
=====================================

Gammu is library and command line utility for mobile phones. It is
released under GNU GPL version 2.

It has been initiated by Marcin Wiacek and other people. Originally the
code was based on Gnokii <http://www.gnokii.org> and later MyGnokii
<http://www.mwiacek.com> projects. Gammu  was former (up to version
0.58) called MyGnokii2.

Currently the project is lead by Michal Cihar <michal@cihar.com> with
help of many contributors.


More information
================

On <http://www.gammu.org/> there is wiki and bug tracker, current Gammu
maintainer keeps information available on <http://cihar.com/gammu/>.


Downloading
===========

Current releases can be downloaded from several mirrors, primary
download site currently is <http://dl.cihar.com/gammu/releases/>. 

Developers might be interested in snapshot or version control system
(Subversion is being used), information about accessing these is
available at <http://cihar.com/gammu/>.

Anonymous Subversion is available using <svn://svn.cihar.com/gammu>,
there is also web browser for it - <http://viewsvn.cihar.com/gammu>.


Versions
========

There are two types of releases - testing and stable, both having
version x.y.z. Stable releases have usually z = 0 or some small number,
while testing ones have z >= 90. Testing releases usually provide latest
features, but everything does not have to be stabilized yet.


Configuration
=============

Gammu requires configuration to be able to properly talk to your phone.
You can create own by starting from example in
docs/examples/config/gammurc, where parameters are described, or use
utils/gammu-config script (installed to bin), which can help you to
generate valid configuration.

Alternatively you might want to try GUI for Gammu called Wammu (see
<http://wammu.eu/>), which can automatically generate configuration for
you.

The configuration file should be placed in ~/.gammurc or /etc/gammurc on
Unixes. On Windoes you can place gammurc in Application Data folder in
yout profile or in same directory as is binary being executed from.

For hints about configuring your phone, you can check Gammu Phone
Database <http://cihar.com/gammu/phonedb/> to see what user users
experienced.


Problems
========

Use <http://bugs.cihar.com/> or mailing list for reporting problems.  It
useful to send logs of Gammu executed with enabled debugging. You can to
it by adding "textall" as first parameter, e.g.:

   gammu textall --identify


Developers
==========

Some information is available on wiki and in docs/develop/ folder. You
can also generate documentation using Doxygen. API documentation can be
generated by make apidoc in build, you can also view it online at
<http://cihar.com/gammu/api/>. Similarly internal documentation can be
generated by make interndoc and is available on
<http://cihar.com/gammu/docs/>.

If you intend to use libGammu in your application, all you should need
is to #include <gammu.h> and then use Gammu functions. You can check
docs/develop/examples/ for some small example applications.


Localization
============

Localization uses Gettext. You can set locales you want to use by
specifying LANG or LC_* environment variables (on Linux you usually
don't care about this, on Windows just export e.g. LANG=cs_CZ.

If you want to improve existing translation, please visit
<http://l10n.cihar.com/projects/gammu/>. For adding new one, you need to
contact <michal@cihar.com> and then you will be able to edit it on
former mentioned URL.

You can also go ahead with traditional way of creating/updating po files
in locale/ folder and then sending updated ones to bug tracker.


Note
====

Name Gammu is not connected with Gammu from "Heretics of Dune" written
by Frank Herbert.


Feedback
========

Any feedback is welcome, if you found bug, please follow description in
section "Problems". You can contact developers and users on
<gammu-users@lists.sourceforge.net> mailing list or directly current
maintainer at <michal@cihar.com>.

# vim: et ts=4 sw=4 sts=4 tw=72 spell spelllang=en_us
